---
date: 2007-05-17 14:26:00
layout: post
title: Myspace sucks
tags:
- music
- software
---

Life is good, for the most part. And as a technology enthusiast, there are many
new and cool things to see online. For example, there's the new
[Schools](http://schools.whatsup.org.il) site, part of the Vaya project which
helps Israeli schools use Linux; this site uses the up-and-coming
[Lahak](http://lahak.python-hosting.com) CMS, built on the Django framework,
and looks very promising to the eyes of the bidi-lingual webmaster.

However, some things just plain suck. One of them is myspace; today, in an
attempt to make it more legible, I found that [My Band's
Page](http://myspace.com/switchblade777) implements all of its styling changes
by a "style" tag hidden within the "Members" text block. Myspace doesn't filter
this out - nor does it provide any other means of changing the styling. This,
combined with myspace's horrid administration interface, makes editing
incredible unwieldy. I'm considering opening another Wordpress site for the
band here on this server...

And on that topic - Wordpress 2.2 is out. Shinier. Faster. Built-in support for
sidebar modules. And K2 broke :(. I love K2... Even though now that sidebars
are implemented, the only thing I really need is a very simple template that
allows me an ordinary, rectangular logo. **Update:** I didn't even notice, but
the excellent K2 guys released a fix. However, it seems that when you copy the
plugin they created directly, it inadvertantly adds a space to the end of the
file - and PHP proceeds to barf. Hard to believe people still use this junk to
develop websites... They should use [other junk](http://railsenvy.com).
