---
date: 2007-12-17 01:47:00
layout: post
title: Means of control
tags:
- life
---
{% include JB/setup %}

New URL - not interesting. You'd notice by now, as you've been redirected.
Guess my new E-mail. OpenID - interesting, but I don't have anything
particularily interesting to say about it right now.

This, however, _is_ interesting: "[10 things christians and atheists can (and
must) agree on][1]", a nicely written piece over at cracked.com. But this isn't
blogspam, I'll actually share my two cents. (or
[shnekel](http://www.shnekel.org/), if you like)

I have a serious problem with religion; It is my opinion that it is an overly
powerful means of control. Whether it has evolved as such or not is hard to
tell. But today it seems to pose a very serious threat to the world.

Now, don't get me wrong - control of this type is very important and useful.
Specifically, it manifests itself in a basic moral system which, many believe,
has served mankind well. You know, "thou shalt not murder", stuff like that.
Some may even say that it was a central factor in overcoming our primal urges,
and development into the ever-so-slightly more sophisticated society we are
today.

However, there are other, more dangerous manifestations of this control.
Specifically, it seems all-too-easy nowadays to get up and say "This-and-that
god has spoken to me - we must kill those-and-them". "God has spoken to me, we
must, uh, enlighten these our-religious-character-rejecting
other-religion-followers. There's some oil in it for us, too". "This land has
been promised to us this-and-that years ago, we must kill all
other-religion-dwellers".

Of course, the link here is politics. When used as a series of anecdotes,
morals, stories, hell - even as a way of life - religious is mostly harmless.
However, when a religious leader becomes a political figure, the temptation is
simply too great, and religion becomes used as a tool of the agenda. It doesn't
take a whole staff of advisors and a big media budget to convince the public
now - it only takes a proper connection with arbitrary dogma to do that.

Throughout the years, the secular public has wished for separation of church
and state. But noone has yet stated it better than George Carlin - "Keep thy
religion (or, in accordance with the linked post, thy lack thereof) to
thyself."

[1]: http://www.cracked.com/article_15663_god-fuse-10-things-christians-atheists-can-must-agree-on.html
