---
date: 2007-04-24 22:14:00
layout: post
title: On the matter of a really long vacation
tags:
- music
- technion
- life
---

By now I've lost count of how long ago my last class was. The strike has begun
immediately after passover, and is certainly beginning to take its toll. For
one thing, I have no homework deadlines - a rare situation indeed for the
Technion student. Furthermore, contemplations are rising about whether or not
this coming summer semester will be held, as the current semester will most
likely leak into it. This is of special interest to me, as I'm behind on my
degree, which is problematic because of my military scholarship. This is
shaping up to be the second time in which, while I've been authorized by the
military to take a summer semester for completion, I am not able to. However,
one cannot trivially dismiss this strike; in a country which is known worldwide
mostly for its technological exports and frequent bloodbaths, one shouldn't
take the matter of tuition lightly.

The vacation was not, however, boring - I got to spend a lot of time with my
lovely girlfriend, a chance to see friends I have not seen in a long time, and
a lot of posts racked up in various forums. The vacation actually expanded far
enough to contain independence day, so I managed to experience the closest
thing to a hangover I'd ever had (But that was some great scotch). Actually,
independence day could have been truly superb; the whole thing got me thinking
about what the perfect night out would be: It's obviously best with my
girlfriend. It would probably start with a rock show of sorts, continue with
food and beer, and end in my girlfriend's bed. Better yet - if I'm _in_ the
show. Better still - if there's no reason to get up early the following day.

Another item of interest is that I've joined a band. Hopefully I'll be able to
keep up the 3-hours-on-Saturday rehearsals. It's a "Trash Metal" band which has
evidently had really bad experience with bass players. Unfortunately, we seem
to have a [myspace page](http://myspace.com/switchblade777). It looks...
myspaceish. However, I really think the group has potential, as well as
excellent influences. Furthermore, I'm an attention whore :D. Hopefully I'll be
able to help influence the band into more of a heavy-metal direction by
harassing them with melodic basslines.

Very little geek news this time, other than the fact that [Feisty
Fawn](http://ubuntu.com) is out. My verdict - get it. It's awesome. Period.
Suspend works much better, NetworkManager is now installed by default, a lot of
things have really been polished, and - can you believe it - Sudoku :)! If you
already run Ubuntu, I'd advise against using the update manager - it works, but
it takes a long time, and cannot run unattended. Also, a word of caution to
server admins though - sqlite3 is the new default, so if you have sqlite2
databases you'll need to convert them (use the sqlite and sqlite3 binaries to
do this) - otherwise you'll get "file is not a database, or is encrypted"
errors.

Whew - that's much better. My thoughts have been depleted into the bits and
bytes before you. I'll just [plug a friend's blog](http://gadial.net) and hit
the publish button now ;)
