---
date: 2007-01-25 00:32:00
layout: post
title: Software Perfection - Lost in the details
tags:
- software
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Sometimes imperfections in Software drive me nuts. It's what drove me away from
Windows. It's what keeps me switching back and forth between desktop
environments. It's what has me wasting a lot of time getting the software to do
what I want, instead of getting anything done. I even have two particularily
good examples.

Firefox and Opera are my two favorite browsers. Opera is actually not as good,
in my taste, as Firefox. Firefox's slew of extensions (especially my latest
favorites - [Del.icio.us bookmarks](http://del.icio.us/help/firefox/extension)
and [Firebug](http://www.getfirebug.com/)), better font handling (on Linux) and
Open-Source nature keep it ahead, if all things were equal. However,  Opera
is much faster on my laptop. **Way** faster. And with the kind of browsing I
usually do - zillions of tabs open and all, that difference counts.

My other good example is LaTeX. I have the [Beamer](http://latex-beamer.sf.net)
package, which makes absolutely stunning presentations in my favorite style of
document creation - writing and compiling source code. However, one little
thing drives me nuts about it - the symbols in math mode, even if I set it to
Serif (Beamer uses sans-serif fonts by default), are not the default ones,
which I prefer. For example, the symbol for "\in" (a member of a set) looks
horrible in my opinion. This tiny little thing had me chasing font preferences
around for half an hour, to no avail.

Graphviz. Ruby on Rails. Networkmanager. Openbox. IVMan. The list goes on...
almost every piece of software I use has a little imperfection - not
necessarily a bug, usually a missing features - that drives me crazy. Maybe I
should quit my degree so I have time to fix all of those?
