---
date: 2008-07-11 11:58:00
layout: post
title: That "Life" category there
tags:
- life
- technion
- music
---

I has it. Sorta.  
  
A few weeks ago, the lovely [NaNuchKa](http://nanuchka.com) visited Israel for
two and a half shows (the half-show was warming for Berry Sacharof). "Three
shows in two weeks?", people ask - well, yeah. They only come once a year.
Their set is already too long to play [all the songs I
like](http://youtube.com/watch?v=tn4RITTXkjw), and that's actually quite
excellent - new EP and all. Great stuff :) Deep Purple should be coming to
Israel this summer (holy crap!), and I need to see what I can do about getting
tickets for that.  
  
This is my last semester at the Technion - then it's off to the military for
me. Courses for this semester are Electronic Switching Circuits (bleh...),
Signals and Systems (which is actually turning out to be quite awesome!), and
the neat Compilation Theory. After having thoroughly enjoyed [Eli
Biham](http://www.cs.technion.ac.il/~biham/)'s excellent Modern Cryptology last
semester, I'm visiting (but not taking) his advanced topics course this
semester. I also have two projects: One in computer security, where we mess
with Google, and another in EE, where we try using transactional memory in
order to optimize Apache.  
  
And finally - next week on Thursday, Shlomi Shaban is doing a piano show in
Haifa, just like the good old days. He was supposed to join NaNuchKa for one of
their shows, but had to cancel, so my lovely lady (who introduced me to his
work in the first place) and I haven't been to his shows in quite a while. It
seems that will be able to use the new [200
line](http://www.egged.co.il/main.asp?lngCategoryID=6109) - part of a long
overdue project to have cheap public transportation available all night long.
