---
date: 2008-11-22 11:58:00
title: Whatever happened to black &amp; white LCDs?
tags:
- hardware
- phones
---

I had a [Game Boy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Game_boy) once. I could play it
just about anywhere, and battery life - for the time - was great. I lost it at
one point, and replaced it with a [Game
Gear](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Game_gear), which sucked the life out of 6
AA batteries rather quickly. The [Game Boy
Color](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Game_Boy_Color) was actually decent on
battery life, but since it didn't have a backlight, you had to play it at very
specific angles.

For gaming, I can appreciate the need for a color screen. My point has to do
with cellphones. True, most cellphones today come with cameras, are able to
play video, and are rather capable mobile gaming platforms (when compared to
the Game Boy, that is). All this does, in fact, require a color screen.
However, I believe that there is a market for cellphones which do not support
these features, but do support neat things like 3G internet connectivity (GMail
and RSS on the phone is a major Win, in my opinion), and have a comfortable SMS
interface. These features actually suffer from having a color screen: Battery
life (for the powerful backlight), viewing angle, and screen resolution take a
hit. While it's true that color LCDs have come a long way since the Game Gear,
so have black & white display technologies (E-Paper, anyone?).

Of course, my wish for a modern B&W-screen cellphone will likely never come
true. The simple reason is that they would be totally unmarketable. Even
business-types like color screens nowadays. So I'll just keep holding out for a
folding E-Paper mobile browser.
