---
date: 2010-09-04 09:26:00
title: Android
tags:
- hardware
- android
- phones
---

I've finally gotten the chance to get one of those newfangled Android phones.

I've recently "bought" a [Samsung Galaxy
Android](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samsung_Galaxy) phone (the older i7500,
not the newer i9000 "S") model. It's a seriously serious upgrade from my old
[Nokia 6120 Classic](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nokia_6120_classic), and as I
broke the 6120's screen and reverted back to my trusty old [Nokia
6070](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nokia_6070) (which I couldn't even get to
run the GMail app), I was quite a happy camper switching to a modern phone.

The whole idea of Android has always been very appealing to me - Nokia's
software has been declining in quality, and while Motorola and Samsung have
always made excellent hardware, they could never get the knack of good
software. Google has. Problem solved, right?

The Android software is miles ahead of anything I've ever seen, including
iPhone. I now have connectivity everywhere, and apps to sync all of my favorite
things - GMail and Google Calendar are included, GTasks is great for tasks,
Paperdroid is great for Read It Later, NewsRob is great for Google Reader. The
Facebook and Twidroyd applications are also quite nice, and the convenience has
me using those networks more. I even have nifty stuff like Transdroid, a
Transmission web client which is actually very good at **adding** torrents
while I'm away, so they're done by the time I get home. I get my reading done
with Aldiko and ACV (for comics). Even Israeli sites have some good
applications up, such as YNet and [Dapei Zahav](http://d.co.il/) have a nice
Android app, though not as nice as their iPhone ones. And of course, there's
the wonderful [Waze](http://waze.co.il/), which is the most Israeli solution to
the road congestion problem I've ever seen. I've even had the chance to do some
on-foot navigation with Google Maps, which is also handy.

The phone itself has a beautiful AMOLED screen, great audio quality (comes with
quite a good set of headphones as well), and looks sleek. The touchscreen is
responsive enough (though not anywhere near new Android devices nor the
iPhone/iPod touch), and it even comes with a free extra 8GB SD card, for a
total of 16GB.

And now, to rant.

Battery life isn't what is should be - the phone is awesome, I want to use it,
and it can barely get through the day - especially if I'm doing heavy stuff
like Waze (GPS + Data + screen is always on + voice), but even if I'm just
surfing casually. The unlock button is located inconveniently on the bottom
part of the right side, just above the camera button. The home button is
located between the Back and Send buttons, meaning it's very easy to hit by
accident; it's not even labeled. The CPU isn't always fast enough to keep
everything completely smooth, and while this is generally acceptable, it gets
rather irksome in odd places: If you turn on screen auto-rotation (which uses
more battery power), rotation takes a while and might be accidental. However,
there is no _manual_ screen rotation option as far as I can tell.

As a music player (relating to my previous post), the device works well enough -
but I couldn't, for the life of me, get Hebrew support in ID3 tags (no matter
what the encoding is), and only a limited subset of ID3 tag versions is
supported, and everything works much better with Ogg files.

The flaws I've mentioned are relatively minor and nitpicky - for Waze, you can
use the car charger (which comes with the phone, thankfully). The buttons are
OK after some getting used to (and installing the excellent AnySoftKeyboard),
and operation is generally smooth. However, there is a major issue I can't wrap
my head around - the shipped firmware is 1.5 cupcake, and there are absolutely
zero updates available from Samsung. There is a semi-official leaked 1.6 update
which, as I've heard, is quite buggy. An awesome guy called
[drakaz](http://www.drakaz.com/) has been working on a Froyo (2.2) port for the
Galaxy, which I really should check out, but Samsung's behavior on this topic
is inexcusable in my opinion.

All-in-all, however, I'm happy with my phone. It's a joy to use, and the price
is hard to beat - free with my phone plan, provided I can rake up a bill of
150₪ (which I can, with some help from the 70₪ 1GB data plan, which comes in
quite handy). My next phone will, however, probably not be a Samsung.
