---
date: 2013-03-27 18:35:01
title: Reading, writing and vacations
tags:
- life
---

Vacations are a great time for doing that problematic category of things every
management course teaches you about: important, but not urgent. For some
people, it's housework or schoolwork which gets drowned out by day-to-day life.
For others it's keeping up with friends and family. Myself, I also like to
_read_ and _write_.

Writing, for me, is usually about practical stuff. Sometimes it's simply
[code](https://github.com/lutzky) (most of those projects were written on
vacations). Other times, it's writing to this blog (in one of its incarnations)
- which usually has to do with technical tinkering of some sort or other. It's
not that I don't do enough writing in my day job; but there does tend to be an
accumulation of things to write: "I should blog about that", "I should write
that code", "I should try and get my router to do that", and so forth. When a
few days off come by, and I feel that I have enough time to get more urgent
stuff done - it's quite satisfying to be able to dig into that write-queue.

Reading is the same, but the other way around. I'm not talking about standard
RSS feeds (Google Reader R.I.P.), which I usually only have time to skim
through. I mean something pertaining to that: Once in a while, I come across an
article (be it from an RSS feed, a social network, or a news site), which is
too long to read immediately, but I'd really like to get into later on, when I
have time. Usually it's text, but sometimes it's a long form video (usually
from a technical conferences such as the recent C++ and Beyond or Google I/O).
Either way, these past few days I've had the opportunity to take a nice bite
out of my reading queue, with some entries being over a year old. To manage
this queue I use [Pocket](http://getpocket.com) (integrates well with Chrome,
Android, Feedly and others), and I highly recommend it.

If you have some time off, enjoy it. Read something. Write something as well.
